/*
Project member : Purvesh Dave 
                 Miloni Nisar
				 
Project guide :	Asst.Prof. Mr.Shridhar Kamble.			 
*/


Health Monitoring and detection is divided into 3 modules


Module 1

Hardware requirments


i.Arduino uno 
ii.ir sensor
iii.DS18B20 temperature sensor
iv. jumper wires
v. esp8266 esp01 wifi module


Software requirments

i.Visual studio 2015
ii.Sql server management


Other requirements

i. smsgatewayhub for sending sms
ii. stmp for sending mail



1. In module 1, a website is build and hosted online

2.pin diagram and code is given

3. website code is also given but wont run as it has instance of local database .. it can be ran on local host 

4. maching learning algorithm such as decision tree is used for prediction of heart attack.

5. it finds the sensor data of bpm and temperature and store it in database 
 
 




Module 2

Hardware requirments


i.NodeMcu(esp8266 wifi module)
ii.pulse sensor


Software requirments

i.MIT APP INVENTOR


1.In module 2 wrist band or watch is build using NodeMcu(esp8266 wifi module)and a pulse sensor


2.pin diagram and code is giving in circuit diagram and code file

pin A0 orange wire(signal wire)
Pin GND red wire(ground)
pin VCC blue wire(+5v battery)

3.it sends data to Firebase which is a google product.(Check youtube video how to develop realtime database in Firebase)

change url auth ssid and password before uploading on board.

String FIREBASE_HOST = "purvesh-192911.firebaseio.com";
String FIREBASE_AUTH = "0zGXXr1GyVm93n1DATYvwmjyPL0TVfafIVgeQLm2";
#define WIFI_SSID "iot1"
#define WIFI_PASSWORD "iot12345"

4.For displaying output we developed an application its apk and aia file is provided in apk_&_aia file.

5. It sends notification and email if it finds less or more bpm compared with data set.

Here i am using IFTTT(IF THIS THAN THAT) see youtube videos for better understanding of IFTTT 


Module 3

Hardware requirments


i.Arduino uno 
ii.vibration sensor
iii.buzzer
iv.breadboard
v.jummper wires




1.In Module 3 , we are using vibration sensor to sense the vibration on bed .


2.pin diagram and code is giving in circuit diagram and code file

pin d3 orange wire(signal wire)
pin d4 orange wire(signal wire)
Pin GND blue wire(ground)
pin VCC red wire(+5v battery)

3. buzzer is added at pin 13 to alert .if condition is true it will be active high .




REST  I WILL EXPLAIN THE PROJECT AND SHARE A VIDEO LINK TO YOU !! ENJOY CODE FOR FUN

for any queries drop a mail.

Purvesh Dave 
YOUTUBE LINK 
https://youtu.be/AJQbrFbUwnQ

 purveshdave619@gmail.com





